Node.js is an open source server environment
Node.js uses JavaScript on the server.

#how Node.js handles a file request:

1.Sends the task to the computer's file system.
2.Ready to handle the next request.
3.When the file system has opened and read the file, the server returns the content to the client.
Node.js eliminates the waiting, and simply continues with the next request.

#What Can Node.js Do?
Node.js can generate dynamic page content
Node.js can create, open, read, write, delete, and close files on the server
Node.js can collect form data
Node.js can add, delete, modify data in your database

#What is a Node.js File?
Node.js files contain tasks that will be executed on certain events
A typical event is someone trying to access a port on the server
Node.js files must be initiated on the server before having any effect
Node.js files have extension ".js"


#about practical
Node.js is an open-source and cross-platform runtime environment for executing JavaScript code outside a browser. You need to remember that NodeJS is not a framework, and it’s not a programming language. Node.js is mostly used in server-side programming. In this article, we will discuss how to make a web server using node.js.

Creating Web Servers Using NodeJS: There are mainly two ways as follows.

1.Using http inbuilt module
2.Using express third party module
Using http module: HTTP and HTTPS, these two inbuilt modules are used to create a simple server. The HTTPS module provides the feature of the encryption of communication with the help of the secure layer feature of this module. Whereas the HTTP module doesn’t provide the encryption of the data.


#theory
Introduction to npm
npm is the standard package manager for Node.js.

In September 2022 over 2.1 million packages were reported being listed in the npm registry, making it the biggest single language code repository on Earth, and you can be sure there is a package for (almost!) everything.

It started as a way to download and manage dependencies of Node.js packages, but it has since become a tool used also in frontend JavaScript.

Yarn and pnpm are alternatives to npm cli. You can check them out as well.

Packages
npm manages downloads of dependencies of your project.

Installing all dependencies
If a project has a package.json file, by running

bash
copy
npm install
it will install everything the project needs, in the node_modules folder, creating it if it's not existing already.

Installing a single package
You can also install a specific package by running

bash
copy
npm install <package-name>
Furthermore, since npm 5, this command adds <package-name> to the package.json file dependencies. Before version 5, you needed to add the flag --save.

Often you'll see more flags added to this command:

--save-dev installs and adds the entry to the package.json file devDependencies
--no-save installs but does not add the entry to the package.json file dependencies
--save-optional installs and adds the entry to the package.json file optionalDependencies
--no-optional will prevent optional dependencies from being installed
Shorthands of the flags can also be used:

-S: --save
-D: --save-dev
-O: --save-optional